https://www.sans.org/brochure/course/log-management-in-depth/6

GENERAL APPROACH

1. Identify which log sources and automated tools you can use during
the analysis.
2. Copy log records to a single location where you will be able to
review them.
3. Minimize“noise”by removing routine,repetitive log entries from
view after confirming that they are benign.
4. Determine whether you can rely on logs’time stamps; consider time
zone differences.
5. Focus on recent changes,failures, errors,status changes, access
and administration events, and other events unusual for your
environment.
6. Go backwards in time from now to reconstruct actions after and
before the incident.
7. Correlate activities across different logs to get a comprehensive
picture.
8. Develop theories about what occurred; explore logs to confirm or
disprove them.


POTENTIAL SECURITY LOG SOURCES
Server and workstation operating system logs

• Application logs (e.g.,web server,database server)
• Security tool logs (e.g., anti-virus, change detection, intrusion
detection/prevention system)
• Outbound proxy logs and end-user application logs
• Remember to consider other, non-log sources for security events.


TYPICAL LOG LOCATIONS
• Linux OS and core applications:/var/log
• Network devices: usually logged via Syslog;some use proprietary
  locations and formats
  
WHAT TO LOOK FOR ON WEB SERVERS

Excessive access attempts to non-existent files
• Code (SQL,HTML) seen as part of the URL
• Access to extensions you have not implemented
• Web service stopped/started/failed messages
• Access to“risky”pages that accept user input
• Look at logs on all servers in the load balancer pool
• Error code 200 on files that are not yours

Failed user authentication Error code 401, 403
Invalid request            Error code 400 
Internal server error      Error code 500

OTHER RESOURCES
https://www.loganalysis.org/
https://www.ossec.net/


-----


watch <command>
example: watch who

monitor and lockdown egress traffic
Log SUCESSFUL as well as failed login attempts
